Add lesson 10 (#12)
ReDI-School/js-berlin-2021-spring: lesson10.md

<!-- .slide: id="lesson10" -->

# Basic Frontend - Spring 2021

Lesson 10, Tuesday, 2021-04-06

---

<!-- .slide: id="intro-objects" -->

# Intro to Objects

---

### HTML Elements

An HTML element collects values it needs in its opening tag:

```html
<img src="cat.jpg" alt="Cute cat" />
<input type="text" placeholder="Enter name" />
```

src, alt, type, and placeholder are called <span style="color: indianred;">HTML attributes</span>

---

### Code’s ability

Able to represent facts as values

Able to combine values to produce new info

Able to define functions

Conditionally execute code

Limited ability to interact with a user

---

> The values we operate on are so <span style="color: indianred;">basic</span> that, any combination of values still produces one single value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The values we operate on are so <span style="color: indianred;">basic</span> that any combination of values still produces one single value
```

Number:

`34 * 10 + 170`

String:

`"Hello, I am Anne from Denmark, 34 years-old"`

---

> The data about Anne is scattered around in multiple variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data about Anne is scattered around multiple variables:
```

Author: - We have multiple variables to hold data about Anne.

```js
let name = "Anne";
let age = 34;
let height = 170;
let origin = "Denmark";
let likesPizza = true;
```

---

A variable can hold every possible value the data type allows. JS won’t complain if we tried to set

```js
age = 10000; 
height = -1800;
origin = "Lala land";
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

Keeping track of multiple people is difficult

```js
person1Name, person1Age, person1Height, person1Origin
person2Name, person2Age, person2Height, person2Origin
person3Name, person3Age, person3Height, person3Origin
```

---

> In producing new info from existing data, basic data types are useful when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In producing new information from existing data, basic data types are useful when
```

- combining multiple values into a single value
- creating multiple variables to hold related data
- range of values a data type can hold
- having multiple entities

are not an issue for us

---

However if we want to bypass these limitations, we need to define a <span style="color: indianred;">collection</span>.

In Abdullah’s game, we can think of a collection for holding a person’s name, age and height as one single unit

`[name, age, height]`

---

### Increasing Code’s ability

> <span style="color: indianred;">Collecting</span> values into one unit is so essential, that JS provides 2 different data types for representing them: <span style="color: indianred;">Object</span> and <span style="color: indianred;">Array</span>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<span style="color: indianred;">Collecting</span> values into one unit is so essential that JS provides 2 different data types for representing them: <span style="color: indianred;">Object</span> and <span style="color: indianred;">Array</span>.
```

Today, we will introduce the <span style="color: indianred;">Object</span> data type and cover <span style="color: indianred;">Array</span> in another lesson.

---

### JS Objects

A JS Object collects values between two curly brackets

```js

> {name: "Anne", 
> age: 34, 
> height: 170, 
> origin: "Denmark"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  name: "Anne", 
  age: 34, 
  height: 170,
  origin: "Denmark"
}
```

```

> Every element between two curley brackets are called <span style="color: indianred;">object properties</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every element between two curly braces is called <span style="color: indianred;">object property</span>
```

`name, age, height, and origin` are called <span style="color: indianred;">property names</span>

`"Anne", 34, 170, "Denmark"` are called <span style="color: indianred;">property values</span>

---

> A property is also called a <span style="color: indianred;">key-value pair</span>, especially useful when you view your object as a dictionary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A property is also called a <span style="color: indianred;">key-value pair</span>. Key-value Paris are especially useful when we view an object as a dictionary
```

Each word is a <span style="color: indianred;">key</span>

Each definition is a <span style="color: indianred;">value</span>

![](images/dictionary.png) <!-- .element: style="display: block; margin: auto;" -->

---

### Examples

```js
{name: "Anne", age: 34, height: 170, origin: "Denmark"}

{name: "Andy", age: 27, height: 185, origin: "England"}

{name: "Ahmed", age: 30, height: 177, origin: "Syria"}
```

---

### Object

A collection has a data type: <span style="color: indianred;">Object</span>

```js

> typeof {name: "Anne", age: 34, height: 170} // object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typeof {name: "Anne", age: 34, height: 170} // "object"
```

```

---

### How to create an Object

Here is the age of Anne:

```js
34
```

And here is how we create an <span style="color: cadetblue;">object</span> holding Anne’s age:

```js
{age: 34}
```

---

### Assign to a variable

> And how we <span style="color: cadetblue;">assign an object to a variable</span>:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And here is how we <span style="color: cadetblue;">assign an object to a variable</span>:
```

```js
let anne = {age: 34};
```

---

### Read a property’s value

> And how we <span style="color: cadetblue;">read the value back from the object</span>:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is how we <span style="color: cadetblue;">read the value of a property from the object</span>:
```

```js
anne.age
```

If a property does not exist in the object, then we get <span style="color: indianred;">undefined</span>

---

### Change property’s value

How we <span style="color: cadetblue;">change the value stored in anne.age</span>:

```js
anne.age = 35;
```

---

### Object data type

> When working with Object data type, the order does not matter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with Object data type, the order of the properties does not matter
```

```js
{name: "Anne", age: 34, height: 170}
{age: 34, height: 170, name: "Anne"}
{name: "Anne", height: 170, age: 34}
```

When working with Object data type, the property names must be unique

```js
{name: "Anne", age: 34, height: 170}
```

---

### Exercise 1

Now it is your turn to create an object to represent your data

It could contain:

```js
name, age, favouriteFood, hobbies, favouriteMusic, isStudent
```

Assign your object to a variable called `me`

---

### Exercise 2

Now interview your classmate to collect his/her/their data

```js
name, age, favouriteFood, hobbies, favouriteMusic, isStudent
```

Assign this object to a variable called `classmate`

---

### Exercise 3

Now create an `introduce` function which accepts a `person` object with `name, age, favouriteFood, hobbies, favouriteMusic, isStudent` properties and creates an introduction such as:

```js
"Hi, my name is Anne. \
I am 34 years-old. \
My favourite food is Pizza. \
I like hiking and programming. \
I enjoy listening to Jazz. \
I am a student."
```

---

### Methods

A property's value can also be a function

```js
{
    name: "Ekas",
    greet: function() {

>         return "Hello, I am " + this.name;

Reviewer: I think we need an attritional slide to introduce the "this" variable

>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
```
